the harvest.
What do those words bring to your mind?
A resplendent golden season with plentiful work and good food?
Yes.
But isn't it also true that the harvest implies urgency?
Harvest can't wait.
The crop has to be brought in.
The rains might cut short the days, or soak the grain.
Everyone is needed to get the job done.
And what does that suggest about the way in which we must work during the figurative
harvest that Jesus was talking about here?
Let's examine the context of Jesus' words, beginning in Matthew 9.35, and notice what
Jesus was doing, how it made him feel, and what specific actions and attitudes he recommended
either directly or by his example, Matthew 9, verse 35.
It says, Jesus set out on a tour of all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues
and preaching the good news of the kingdom, and curing every sort of disease and every
sort of infirmity.
This was Jesus' third tour of Galilee.
He was teaching, preaching, and curing.
What effect did it have on him, verse 36?
When seeing the crowds, he felt pity for them because they were skinned and thrown
about like sheep without a shepherd.
The footnote tells us that the verb here for pity denotes a feeling experienced deep inside
the body, an intense emotion, one of the strongest words in Greek for compassion.
Compassion for people who were, as the footnotes indicate, maltreated, harassed, wounded, helpless,
exhausted, dejected, and neglected, crowds who needed God's kingdom.
Thus, Jesus said in verse 37, yes, the harvest is great, but the workers are few.
The harvest, he called it, a short period of time in which many people are needed to
accomplish a great work.
What would Jesus recommend?
People notice, verse 38, fervent prayer, therefore beg the master of the harvest to send out
workers into his harvest.
But did Jesus just leave it at that?
Not at all.
Notice the next verse, chapter 10 and verse 1.
So he summoned his twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits in order
to expel these and to cure every sort of disease and every sort of infirmity.
The very work that Jesus was doing back in chapter 9, verse 35.
So here we find Jesus delegating authority, giving his disciples permission and real power
to perform mighty deeds.
He also organized his apostles, and verses 2 through 4, we find their names, but this is
not just a list of names like the one we find in Luke chapter 6 verses 13 through 16.
The Luke listing centers around events that occurred months earlier before Jesus' second
tour of Galilee, whereas this listing in Matthew deals with Jesus' third tour of Galilee.
And whereas Luke's list contains twelve names and eleven commas between the complete names,
this list separates the names not by commas, but by the word and used not eleven times,
but six times.
Yes, this is a list defining six teams.
So in verses 2 through 4, the apostles get a partner.
In verses 5 and 6, they get a territory.
In verse 7, they get a message centering on the kingdom.
In verses 11 and 12, they are told to search out each city for deserving ones at their
homes.
By the way, did Jehovah, the master of the harvest, answer their plea for more harvest workers?
About a year later, Jesus dispatched 70 more disciples, so 82 in all.
Did that relieve some of the pressure, reduce some of the urgency of the situation?
Well, notice what Jesus said about this at Luke chapter 10 and verse 2.
Then He said to them, yes, the harvest is great, but the workers are few.
Therefore beg the master of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest.
The wording is identical to that found at Matthew chapter 9 verses 37 and 38, isn't it?
Jesus' assessment of the need was exactly the same.
Well now how can we be sure that all of this applies to us?
Notice what Jesus said right here in his original instructions in Matthew chapter 10 and
verse 23.
When they persecute you in one city, flee to another.
For truly I say to you, you will by no means complete the circuit of the cities of Israel
until the Son of Man arrives.
Yes, these words apply not only to those living in the first century, but to those living
when the Son of Man arrives.
And that also means that between now and Armageddon there will be plenty of territory.
Remember too that Jesus said at Matthew 13 verses 38 and 39, the field is the world.
And the harvest is a conclusion of a system of things.
So while it's true that we have more workers than ever before, the circumstances keep changing.
When the harvest season began back in 1914, Earth's population was just then cresting
1.6 billion.
Well today billions more need to hear the truth.
So we do this work as Jesus instructed.
We pray fervently for more workers and we get organized.
We get a partner, a territory, a kingdom presentation, and then we search systematically.
In the past few years, under the direction of the service committee of the governing
body, a number of special preaching campaigns have been organized in very remote or
densely populated territories.
And the results confirm that the harvest is still great, and the workers are still few.
For instance, after a recent four-month campaign to reach Amara, speaking people on the Andean
plateau of Peru, an elder reported that way up in the mountains they found a group of people
meeting twice a week to study my book of Bible stories and the greatest man who ever lived.
Well, the group was surprised to find out that these books were published by Jehovah's
Witnesses, and those conducting the meetings agreed to study with our brothers during
the campaign.
Many attended, and they were happy to find out about our website, and now some members
of that group are continuing their Bible study with Jehovah's Witnesses.
Even in our current circumstances, we've been able to reach wide audiences through teleconferencing
and broadcasting.
Some regions of Africa, without suitable internet, have been able to use television and radio
to broadcast not only the memorial, but their regular congregation meetings.
After one broadcast, a non-witness man in Malawi said,
the coronavirus has helped me to hear God's word explained effectively.
In a way, I have never heard before my whole life.
I had no idea that witnesses could teach so skillfully.
I don't want to miss any of these meetings ever.
And his comments were typical of many that were received at the branch office.
Isn't that beautiful?
There are still places on this earth where the interest in Bible truth is great.
Or places with vast, unassigned territories, or where travel is difficult, or where other
conditions restrict our movement.
If we're persecuted in one city, we flee to the next one, because this is a harvest.
The grain is ripe, the time is limited, every worker is needed.
And yet, unlike a literal harvest, where we can sort of size up the amount of work yet
to be done by the remainder of crop that has yet to be gathered, we can't do that and
say, we've got this.
We already know that we will be working right up to the end.
But as Jesus assures us at Matthew chapter 10 and verse 22,
the one who has endured to the end will be saved.